I made 35,000 posts over 40 months and
grew a 7.8 million person audience and 3
weeks ago I made six big shifts in my
content and I want to show you behind
the scenes what we found from those six
big shifts with screenshots of the data
so that you can use this to make more
money in your business and whatever you
promote and so the first was we went
from edutainment to education so instead
of being kind of halfway through to all
the way all in on education now that had
Downstream impacts in terms of how we
packaged how we title things even the
number of special effects we have and
the purpose of Education as I see is to
change behavior and so my point is with
this video once I show you the data of
what's happened since that change since
the we made these six shifts that
hopefully or hopefully not we'll see
what you decide to do but it will change
how you make content to make more money
so number one is educa edutainment to
education number two is went from for us
to for you now when I say for us what
ended up happening with the mistakes I
made was that I mean unknowingly was
that I would be like team what do you
guys think about content and so they'd
be like hey we should make a video on
this hey we should make a video on this
and so what end up happening is I
started making videos for my team not my
ideal customer a business owner and so I
actually had a friend come into town and
say Hey you know it's weird I actually
haven't been paying attention to your
content he does about 10 million bucks a
year and uh I was like he's like well I
guess I'm not really your avatar and I
was like who I was like you are 100% my
avatar what's going on and so as soon as
I realized that I was like oh man he's
like it just didn't feel as relevant to
me and so I was making stuff for my team
rather than my avatar and so if you are
somebody who makes content something to
be mindful of is
your team might not be the type of
people you're trying to make content for
so just something interesting for me so
went from for us our team to for you
viewer for business owners number three
we went from wide to narrow so Fitness
relationships Etc there are wider topics
more people are in relationship more
people eat food more people trying to
lose weight compared to only 9% of
people are business owners and so we
went much narrower on the topic of like
I'm just talking about business because
that's what I love talking about too as
a side note and so it turns out business
owners like it more when I talk about
business and I like it more as a
business owner so everybody wins at
least for me number four is we went from
views to revenue now this was key so
when you just have views as a metric
then you kind of do Chase wider because
it was the only real metric we were
tracking and we didn't really have
anything better at the time and that's
we focused on since then we've
transitioned to ad revenue and here's
why ad Revenue takes into account views
but it has a second metric that's paired
with it which is RPMs which is revenue
per thousand eyeballs so if you if
YouTube pays lots of money for the
eyeball then it means they're more
valuable and if they're more valuable to
The Advertiser they're more valuable to
me and so my idea here is that I want to
make sure that we're showing our videos
to the right people or rather that the
right people are watching now once we
can control for that and we stay our
keep our RPMs or the amount that
advertisers are willing to pay for these
eyeballs High then we get as many views
as we can and as a total Pro tip for
business stuff in general paired kpis
Works exceptionally well so if you're in
customer success you want the speed of
resolution but you also want a quality
metric if you had a a company that did
cleaning it' be the same thing is you'd
pair reviews from customers with the
number of cleans per day and so you like
to have both edges so that you can
control for both sides and you should do
that with any Department you can now so
I said number four was views to ad
Revenue as our primary metric that we
were optimizing for so we no longer care
oh this one had a lot of views we don't
care about that it's just do we have as
many views with the right people number
five is from emphasizing shorts to
emphasizing Longs we saw that longs got
the best people and short the whole
thesis around shorts creates Longs
viewers we actually haven't seen any
evidence that supports that people watch
shorts want more shorts people want
Longs want more longs which doesn't
necessarily mean that people from a
different platform don't watch you on
shorts on Tik Tok and then they're a
long form YouTube Watcher and then watch
your stuff on YouTube that long but
usually people who watch long form stuff
on YouTube watch long form stuff on
YouTube people watch short form on
YouTube watch short form some people
watch both but most of the time people
kind of have consumption preferences and
they're not going to change the
preferences for you they just might
watch you in a different place where
that consumption preference is what you
make and so we found that and we found
that the Longs are the things that
actually drove the the most applications
for acquisition. comom and the most Book
Sales and the most optins so that's what
we're making more of and number six was
assuming more versus assuming nothing
meaning I made videos like the Alex
Heros diet I made uh the the Alex Heros
Vlog the herois things like that those
assume that somebody who doesn't know me
will want to care what whoever the hell
Alex rosi is which I don't think is that
reasonable like I don't think they would
want that cuz who cares about this
random dude and so it's assuming nothing
now that has um changes in terms of what
we're making so there's no assumptions
so for example like we own acquisition.
comom we have pfolio businesses I
introduce myself because if you don't
know who I am this might be the first
video you see me and so if I stopped
doing that for a while because I kind of
went into this mindset that every
everyone knew now obviously that's dumb
way more people don't know me than know
me but you kind of fall into this trap
of assuming you're talking to your warm
audience rather than what you're making
the content for which is people who've
never met you before and so keeping that
top of mind which is that we want to
make sure that we welcome everyone and
that we don't have inside jokes that
only people who are on the inside feel
it because then all it does is it
excludes people that are new and like
what you want to do is bring more people
into your world anyways especially if
they're business owners for me and so
there are the six changes that we made
in our content and so we've gone all in
on that concept and so we've done a lot
of Rapid iteration but let me tell you
the data that's happened since so right
off the bat RPMs meaning the revenue per
thousand viewers went up by 68%
so like when you think man I don't feel
like I can like what my content is about
like it doesn't change anything well it
sure as hell did for us when I talk
about deep business stuff when I talk
about reducing TR when I talk about
increasing number of time like ways to
get someone to buy more times when I
talk about how we scale a 40 person
sales team and the all the steps that we
did in order to do that in a real case
study in a real business when I talk
about how you can deconstruct and
reconstruct a brand these are a deeper
business Concepts and guess what
business owners watch them and guess
what those eyeballs are more valuable
68% and we're only going to get better
at it and so for us boom that meant that
US changing our topics got the right
people to watch the videos checkbox one
and so you can see by the video title
when we had educational versus kind of
wide or business education versus wider
topics The Wider topics in general had
way lower RPMs you can see that with the
the light blue whereas the purple is
more money-making more business more
sales more more you know retention real
business tactics that grow companies and
those unsurprisingly were way higher in
average RPM some of them even higher
than that so the next big change and I
see this as anecdotal is that 25% more
comments per view and so I see that as
an engagement metric that we had way
more people saying wow this was good or
this was great or I missed this style of
content that's actually a really common
thing and I will say this this is to my
this my decrement I should have seen
that more business owners were telling
us in the comments what they wanted and
honestly I just wasn't listening um and
that's on me I I was like well you're
going to lose some people as you make
more you know high production stuff
that's okay but with the return to
hardcore business education in terms of
the content that we're making the
response has been overwhelming that so
many people were like I'm coming back to
all your content this has been great
this is what I came here for and so I'm
stoked about that and so we got 25% more
people who are uh doing that we have
more shares negligible and slightly
fewer likes which again whatever but for
me I would say com I would rate comments
and shares as higher and so overall we
had higher engagement from these videos
even though they were narrower topics
which to me is more good for fewer
people than a little bit of good for a
lot of people which is where I want to
be in terms of what I want to serve or
who I want to serve so the next big
change is that despite and this is a key
Point despite having fewer absolute
views per long form video we're actually
getting more long form views overall
across the channel so we're up 30 almost
30% 29.56 per um then our our six weeks
average before that
from these deeper educational videos now
realistically that's a function of one
main thing in my opinion that's because
the education stuff actually requires
far less post editing and I can make
more education stuff because this is
what I do every day and so we can
actually create more content which I'm
stoked about and I think the I think I
mean hopefully business owners are too
um and so we actually get more overall
views with the right people because we
don't have nearly as much
highi post production whizbangs which is
what most of my audience who was trying
to learn stuff rather than be
entertained was happy about all right
this next one is very surprising to me
at least so our subscriber conversion
increased by
24.6% and so that means that we've
actually like even though again we had
slightly lower lower absolute views more
long form views that we actually
increased the absolute number of
subscribers per week since doing this so
like I mean I was very very comfortable
with all of these metrics tanking like
that was I honestly expected that
because I was like all right well we're
going to have way fewer viws but it's
going to be the right people but because
25% more people who watch subscribe even
though we get fewer views our actual
subscriber growth has grown which is
crazy in an absolute metric way so this
was this was an unexpected outcome for
me and has just reinforced that this was
the right decision for the audience that
I want which is business owners the next
thing is like okay well if you're
getting fewer views how is that going to
translate to optins because I'm a
business owner like that's what I care
about I care about people who are trying
to uh to become portfolio companies come
to a workshop whatever and so it turns
out that we have
26% more optins per week since making
this change and so this is like both
incredibly surprising and also
incredibly duh and I say this because
like saying hey I'm going to make
business owner stuff to get more
business owners duh but at the same time
I'll would say this just me kind of
commenting on a lot of the Educators
that are in the space they tend to start
moving more and more broad more and more
wide more and more entertainmente more
and more topics that they don't
necessarily have expertise on because
they seek the views whether they say it
or not they don't want to say they like
likees saying cash they still kind of
Count Their likes and so I think if you
can just absolutely get your logic head
on which is tough because sometimes you
it's it's tough to to go away from those
vanity metrics but I care about the
bottom line and so the right people were
seeing it and the right people were
taking action and so we in in the the
business sense saw growth from this in a
big way and this is just like 3 weeks in
four weeks into this kind of execution
all in on this strategy and this will
compound and so for the don't know I
have two bestselling books on Amazon
they're still like number one and number
two on marketing and sales and they've
been there for like number one and
number two for two years or three years
or whatever how they've been out so
they're pretty strong and so we sell
books every month no matter what but
what was crazy to me was to see this
jump in Book Sales that happen as like
think about this we're getting fewer
View
use but more sales by a lot like 2x the
sales twice not like 20% twice the sales
of books that I have and mind you by the
way if you're like hey I'm poor I get it
my books are free too they're by like
you can go to a.com and you get the
video course all my stuff for free you
don't have to opt in and you can go uh
on my podcast and you can listen to the
audiobook for free all right like this
stuff's free this isn't how I make my
money but it's a really good leading
indicator for me of the quality of
traffic now if you want to get a
physical copy yes there's printing cost
and there's shipping cost so yeah you
pay some bucks but if you're dead broke
poor you can use the free stuff the
point is is that this attracted the
right people people who want because if
I make a fitness meals video guess what
those people don't care about getting
leads and making offers kind of sounds
obvious when you think about it when I
make a hey this is how I work with Lila
my wife maybe you get somebody who's
like what about the married
entrepreneurs it's like well only 9% of
people are business owners and then of
that 9% how many of them are married to
to their partner percentage or
percentage versus just talking about
business stuff business people want to
get more leads make more offers make
more money and so that's what my books
are about and so lo and behold more of
those people bought now I want to be
super clear I want to show these two
these two Keynotes here so there are
some Keynotes that will be both deep and
wide and as a content creator business
owner slash investor slash husband slash
human being anyway boy big um sometimes
you hit it out the park and you actually
get both so my highest revenue revenue
perview video also happens to be my most
viewed video and so it doesn't
necessarily mean that if you have a lot
of views the RPMs are low no not at all
you can get a video that applies to all
business owners and it will get a lot of
views and the cpms or the RPMs will be
high The Branding video is the same
thing that it's very recent it's new and
it continues to climb up um and there
both of these are very conceptual
business Concepts that all business
owners can benefit from and so if I talk
about leverage almost all businesses
need to understand strategy and leverage
it applies it's a huge amount of value
to business owners understanding brand
tremendous value to any business now on
the other hand you can also make and we
have we call these Keynotes but like
longer form either whiteboard
presentations or like a presentation
that I put a lot of time into um some of
them are going to be deeper and less
wide and that's okay like if I talk
about scaling a 40 person sales team if
you have an e-commerce store doesn't
affect you but leverage and brand would
affect you whether you had the 40 person
sales team or the e-commerce company or
a software company or an app or whatever
and so again the scaling for 40% sales
team still super valuable but it's just
going to be only you know valuable to
onethird of the business owner audience
that I might be able to you know who
might want to watch this same thing with
um same thing with the video I've made
about texing your business overnight by
using using Mega influencers basically
showing how to get a Mr Beast A Logan
Paul a rock to partner with a Conor
McGregor a Huda Beauty a Taylor Swift to
partner with to 10x your business now if
your business like a local business the
likely that they're going to partner
with you is really low right and so it
doesn't really make sense for that
particular business now you could use
that on a micro scale but it might just
not have as much transference if you
have an e-commerce brand that's National
might make a ton of sense but again it's
going to have a sub segment of already a
9% slice of the population that it would
be deeply valuable to though and so
that's the thing is is that I have to
think about like I'm okay with a video
that gets 10,000 views instead of
400,000 views if 10,000 of those people
are $10 million plus business owners
it's like here here's how I packed my
company in order to sell it I have a
video on my channel that walks through
46 minutes of the decision-making
process I used to determine to sell my
business guess who that applies to
basically no one unless you actually
have a lot of money and you already have
a business asset that is5 million in
profit or more and so let's see 9% of
businesses it's like .1% do $10 million
a year of businesses so there's like no
one who that actually applies to except
for those people or like this thing was
amazing this changed my life and I had a
bunch of people after I posted that that
I know that were big 20 30 $40 million
year business owners who watched the
video like this is insane I can't
believe you gave this out I'm like
believe it because guess what no one
else is going to watch it and so I will
say this this is me giving you like a
little hat tip for consuming if you're a
business owner I would not gauge views
as whether the whether the video is good
or not it just shows how relevant it is
to how many people and so if you an
e-commerce person I have some videos in
here about how to use offers for
e-commerce that's just already going to
be a slice of a slice but it'd be super
applicable for you and so I'm okay with
very small views as long as the quality
gives value and provides a result result
in a clear way for the viewer and so I
Define education as change of behavior
so if I can help them change their
behavior in a way that makes them more
money ideally they'll associate that
money they made that value they made
with us at acquisition. comom and so
that's the whole goal of this stuff and
for the creators out there or those of
you guys who are making content in order
to promote your business I'll give you
this Frame that I started out with that
helped me a lot which is you know when I
posted my first you like I started at
zero on every platform to be very clear
here like it wasn't like I was tailor
Swift and I came on Tik Tok yay right it
wasn't like that when I started on
YouTube I had no subscribers and the
First videos I posted got like a hundred
views right but I thought to myself I
was like man if I like I would probably
go across town to speak to 100% audience
for lunch and I'd have no problem with
that and so the idea that I had a
hundred people I was like that's not bad
even if there's 10 people I'm like well
I would talk to a 10 person I mean I
used to do this for years I would do a
lunch and learn and uh see if I could
sell some weight loss you know what I
mean like I was willing to do that
anyways and so there's this it's be it's
literally just because of comparison
that people feel bad about their social
media content not because inherently the
numbers don't make sense and the crazy
thing about this and I just want to
reemphasize is it's
free it's free the platforms distribute
your content for free these are people
that would never found out about you and
they find out about you for free like
take that in for a second so the
leverage on free distribution is
infinite and so if you get a thousand
people over a month who see your thing
it's a thousand people it's not nothing
and so I try to make sure that I focus
on that concept of like oh man my
average for the channel is 400,000 and
we got a 50,000 view video 50,000 my God
I speak at conferences with a thousand
people it's 50 times that not bad and
those people I got to have a really
really curated experience increase the
value per second absolutely Crush as
much value as I possibly could in that
in time period And so I'll make one last
note on uh on the Deep versus wide
content is that I get get so many DMS
and like slack messages even from our
portfolio company Founders who were like
dude that last video was so sick and I
hadn't had that in a minute for probably
the the six months where we went a
little bit wider with our content and it
became so reinforcing for me even though
like what's the what's the number of
people I don't know 50 people maybe
messaged me being like dude that new
like your new content style or going
back like the new old content of more
whiteboard more deep business tactics
like it's so great my team's watching it
again that like fills me up CU that's
why I made the stuff to begin with was
the stuff that I didn't have when I was
coming up that I wish someone had taught
me and then I had to just find out
through trial and error and so that's
why we make this stuff but the views
weren't high but for me like I'm here
for business owners and I already know
there's only 9% of people are business
owners and that's okay I'm for I'm here
for you guys all right so here's what
we're doing next with this data all
right so we had our hypothesis we looked
at the 35,000 posts we made these six
big shifts and buy and large we have
crushed the hypothesis so I'm actually
like I was telling my team yesterday I
was like we're kind of lucky that this
worked out the first time because like
I'm not really used to things working
out the first time more more like
realistically like hey we made this
change and then like four of the six
stats are bad and two of them are good
and so we're like all right well these
ones are good so let's try and keep this
stuff the same and we got to tweak all
these other things our view to
subscriber ratio is higher our absolute
subscribers are higher optins are higher
book sales are higher applications are
higher and it's about stuff I like
making so I'm like I'm thrilled to I'm
stoked and I get to make this stuff
about like we can do more content
because I don't have to put as much post
into it for you guys so like you guys
said it's more distracting to have the
whizbangs and the effects and we're like
cool I'm happy to just talk business so
this is what we're doing now so one big
belief we have is volume NE Gates luck
that's in the sales team locker room
same thing in the media team is that we
will we will create more and we will
just basically have constraints on where
like the direction of what we're
creating but we will keep we will keep
as much as we can in different ways to
find out works even better than our
first whack at it the second thing is
don't get the same scar twice we're
super happy to make mistakes I
mean I I it's funny I even I I I almost
mean that like it's totally fine making
mistakes it's like they're not mistakes
they're just lessons what we don't want
is to get the same scar twice and so if
we find out or we know that I have to
introduce myself then I better keep
introducing myself if we know that high
Hi-Fi production doesn't do as well with
business owners then I better not do
that right unless there's a conclusion
that we find that's wrong about that but
for now like that's what we're not going
to make the same mistake twice and so
I'm happy to make all the mistakes there
are in a very narrow field that's what
makes an expert um but I just don't want
to make it twice a third one this is
super tactical is that uh slides versus
just me heavily prepping for a
presentation hasn't made as much of a
difference so I tried to approximate
this by like my best videos that were
most views and most business Centric in
terms of cpms was me presenting at a
conference so I have a stage in my
headquarters and so I was like all right
I'm going to present on my stage but it
was to it was not to an empty room it
was to my to my team but like a lot of
comments were like is this guy
pretending to be on stage and so if you
did see that that's why it was uh that's
why the the room was kind of empty um
but I was like I was trying to
approximate as much of that style of
video so that gives you maybe a little
bit Insight I was like okay what can I
control I can do a stage we can do the
lighting we can have the seats I can
have slides these all things that I'm
used to doing now it worked to degree
but we got the same performance from me
just talking to red camera like this and
going over the slides without the stage
uh or me just doing whiteboard of
walking through the concepts or the
tactics to grow or solve a problem
number
four show what only you can show and say
what only you can say and so I have I
have a few marketing isms that I have
never heard anywhere else that are like
very real for me one is State the facts
and tell the truth it's always that way
because then you never get in trouble
you have to worry you don't have to
worry about claims you just State the
facts and tell the truth also means that
you have to go collect data so you can
State the truth um and so a second one
underneath of that is say what only we
can say and show it only we can show
it's demonstration right and so if
obviously I have accomplishments that I
can say hey I know what I'm talking
about but there's also labor and so I
could say hey I built a 8 million
personal audience listen to this stuff
for Content which by the way you don't
have to listen to any of it this just
worked for me um or I can say I made
35,000 posts independent of the outcome
and so what I want to do is do more work
than anyone else will do so that I can
show what no one else can show and say
what else can say and so if you're
starting out or you're you're a
different part in your journey
considering like okay well I can't out
outcome anyone yet because I'm early but
you can outwork people and so I can just
say like I made 35,000 post what I
learned I'm going to compress a lot of
time for you that's valuable no matter
who you are and number five is still
doing wide shorts so this is interesting
so we thought about this and we decided
that for shorts we're willing to go a
little bit wider and I'll tell you why
so I run
ads and Lila runs ads using our face and
I actually see the main Roi from shorts
as top of funnel brand awareness and
when I say brand awareness I really just
mean like facial recognition people will
see my face and remember that they got
some sort of value from it and in a
short it's more difficult to get into
really deep business Concepts which is
what I'm um not to stes Impossible and
maybe I just need to up my skills which
is totally totally fine um but we're
still maintaining a certain percentage
of shorts that I would consider to be
more like um a little bit wider because
I tend to like business philosophy too
and I don't want to stop like one are
the things I like talking about I like
philosophy I like wide business Concepts
I like personal development instead
of in terms of like productivity which
is T of kind of a wider topic but I'm
not going to stop doing that because I
do like making that stuff and so
I'll probably keep having shorts around
that because the ROI is actually not
from shorts turning into book sales or
shorts turning into optins it's actually
the shorts getting retargeted later with
an ad that does go to something but
they're going to be more likely to
recognize me and then take the next step
in whatever whatever the funnel is
whether we're saying hey if you're
starting a business go check out school
which by the way again wide if someone's
trying to start a business then it makes
sense for it to be a little bit wider
for people trying to get into it and so
then the school ads can hit those people
and it makes sense for them to use
school right uh if it's a business owner
I still think that from a business
perspective we have a lot of business
content in terms of our shorts but I
want to just address this in case you
see it so you're not confused about it I
still will have some wide content in
short form um because of the reason that
I just said and so those are the kind of
like the next steps and if you guys find
these kind of updates valuable with the
metrics behind it um the tldr of this
whole video is that what we said
worked and if you're an educator toss
out the views focus on your customer
make stuff for them because likes ain't
cash views ain't cash cash is cash and
so if you're trying to grow your
business make sure you're making the
stuff for the people you actually want
to make now here you go